Introduction

	What is a virus? There are multiple types of viruses. Mostly a virus is a infection that can spread through a computer system by the user. Currently, the primary vehicle for transmission of computer viruses is electronic mail. Viruses typically arrive on a computer as an attachment to an email message, which, when activated by the user, sends further copies of itself to the system. However, there is different ways to stop the spread of a virus. Such as, anti-viruses in which they are there to detect the spread of viruses and stop them. Therefore, this will explain the different types of viruses and ways to detect them and stop the spread of infection.

History 
	Computer viruses are harmful programs that appeared in the 1980’s and they had the ability to ruin the operation of the machine. These nuisances are more specifically a type of malware that makes copies of itself and infects the device without the user’s knowledge. While these disruptions were small at first, they quickly became a more serious threat as computers and computer networks became more important in people’s daily lives. In 2002, there was an estimate of 60,000 different viruses in existence. These days, they have evolved to perform numerous actions to disrupt and ruin a device. These can be small things like small, annoying adds, to massive things like stealing personal information. The viruses became more complex and it became harder for anti-viruses to locate them. Today, many virus writers create a few new lines of the harmful code each and everyday and the increase of a virus’ capabilities led to a push for the development of anti-viruses to better combat them.  Nowadays, anti-virus software developers keep up with virus writers by creating protection for these the viruses they create.
    TYPES OF VIRUSES
There are many different types of viruses that exist today. These consist of worms, Trojans, Spyware, etc. The different lines of code can do a variety of things to damage a machine or put the user of the device in danger. The different viruses also have varying strategies to influence the device. One of the most simple tactics is to overwrite files with it’s own. Others are more subtle such as a Boot Sectors Virus, which only executes the virus’s code when the device boots up. How stealthy a virus is can vary, one of the more stealthy types of is a Spacefiller Virus, which inserts its’ code into the program.  The most stealthy viruses are written in way so the program acts normally while infected. Not only does the virus hide from the user, it also hides well from any anti-viruses the user may have installed. As time goes on the diversity of the malicious code continues to grow.

Computer Worms

	The self replicating worm virus,  is a virus that can spread through a network with the assistance of the computer user. In other words, “We distinguish between worms and viruses in that the latter infect otherwise non-mobile files and therefore require some sort of user action to abet their propagation” (Byers, Rubin, and Kormann 2003, October “A taxonomy of computer worms” 1). This exemplifies that worm viruses can jump from place to place, but they need help from user interaction. Also, worm viruses can infect non-mobile files. Equally important, “This virus simply replicates into files with random names, and is unlikely to be successful in any current computing environment because the chances are very poor that any of the replicas will ever be run” (F. Cohen, 1992,  “Computer Viruses - Theory and Experiments” 1). This explains that computer worms can duplicate into files as random names. In addition, worms need to be opened or runned in order for the infection to actually work. Furthermore, all this shows that computer worms/viruses can travel to different places just with the assistance of the computer user.

Trojan
Trojan is a type of code or software that looks legitimate but it can take control of your computer. A misconception is when a Trojan is called a virus, a virus can execute and replicate themselves but a Trojan cannot, a user has to execute trojans. The name Trojan stems from greek history where a wooden horse was used to invade the city of troy. The various types of Trojans are remote access, data sending, rootkit and backdoor. In the past there have been trojan attacks and the biggest ones are Zeus in 2007 where it was used to swipe data from the us department of transportation, Cryptolocker in 2013 where it spread through emails and held users files for a $400 ransom, and Kovter, which was used for click-fraud so the clicker could make revenue for the attacker.

Spyware

	Spyware is another type of malicious code to be careful of. Spyware has the ability to go undetected by the user. This code records web surfing habits, and even could steal crucial information such as passwords. This issue posses a major security to all users on the internet, as all the information stolen goes back to the spyware distributor, to do whatever they desire. Typically, they hold the information ransom or use the stolen passwords to steal money. How is to deal with this type of virus is especially difficult. Writer’s of this code, if they are aware of detection strategies, could build the code in a way that is more difficult and costly to detect. It is also challenging to determine what exact information was taken. Spyware experts would have to track where the information goes and take note of the behavior of that particular spyware, just to try and determine what information was stolen. Since Spyware is such a massive danger to internet users everywhere, people have done extensive research on behavior and characteristics of these malicious codes.

AntiVirus, Virus Prevention and Protocol
	The purpose of an antivirus program is to find and remove or quarantine the virus that has infected the users computer using automatic and manual scanning capabilities. The three stages of an antivirus program is to first scan for malicious programs within the computer, the second is to quarantine the virus and the third is to remove it from the computer. A more in depth look into the first stage of an antivirus. “The most common method of identifying viruses are signature strings. A 16-B string has become the defacto AV industry standard”(Harmer, 2002, p. 253).
	Some known antivirus protection programs are Bitdefender Antivirus, Norton Antivirus, VIPRE advanced security, Avira free security, Kaspersky Anti-Virus, Webroot, and ESET.
Pros and cons for some are, 
Bitdefender allows the user to delete threats safely and it includes a personal firewall.
Avira is free, includes a vpn and has a software vulnerability scan, but has frequent pop-up ads and will slow down the computer. 
VIPRE has clearly marked folders and it doesn’t slow down the computer even during scans, the only con is that there are some viruses that it couldn’t detect from a list of 300 viruses.
Norton antivirus has a user friendly interface and is constantly updated, a con is the large amount of ram usage.
 

Virus Detection

	Virus detection identifies if there is a virus by running the system and any files sufficiently to see if there would be a infection that would start growing on important files. Furthermore, “Dynamic detection method decides whether or not code is infected by running the code and observing its behavior” (Bailey, Oberheide, Andersen, Mao, Jahanian, and Nazario, 2007 "Automated classification and analysis of internet malware"). This represents that the detection would run through and examine the system to see if there might be a virus roaming through it and infecting any personal information. Also, it will have some anti-viruses go and disinfect the system after identifying the viruses. Likewise, “Current commercial virus detectors are based on three distinct technologies: activity monitors, signature scanners, and le authentication programs” (Boer and Perelson, 1993 “How diverse should the immune system be?”). This shows that there is some ways to actual identify weather or not there is a virus. The ways are mostly to scan inside the local machine and see if they get any signatures and see what type of virus it might actually be, but they use these ways for identifying the type of virus and where it is. This concludes that the virus detections are there mostly to identify the types of viruses and where it is.


    MORE INFO LINKS
    http://sclab.yonsei.ac.kr/courses/2003/03TAI/CH08-01.pdf

    https://www.ijcai.org/Proceedings/95-1/Papers/127.pdf

    https://s3.amazonaws.com/academia.edu.documents/30606819/Christopher_Kruegel_Recent_Advances_in_Intrusio.pdf?AWSAccessKeyId=AKIAIWOWYYGZ2Y53UL3A&Expires=1539134937&Signature=yeqcZRhE4KMrKauYljpzUDDvdIM%3D&response-content-disposition=inline%3B%20filename%3DVortex_Enabling_cooperative_selective_wo.pdf#page=187

    https://www.cs.unm.edu/~forrest/publications/Email%20Networks%20and%20the%20Spread%20of%20Computer%20Viruses.pdf

